---
layout: page
title: My paper
id: id_my_paper
permalink: /paper/
---

1,[Guo, Y. 9 , Xu, Q. 9 , Canzio, D., Shou, J., Li, J., Gorkin, D. U., ... & Wu, Q. (2015). CRISPR Inversion of CTCF Sites Alters Genome Topology and Enhancer/Promoter Function. Cell, 162(4), 900-910. (9 Co-first author)](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0092867415009150)

Summary   

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160;CTCF and the associated cohesin complex play a central role in insulator function and higher-order chromatin organization of mammalian genomes. Recent studies identified a correlation between the orientation of CTCF-binding sites (CBSs) and chromatin loops. To test the functional significance of this observation, we combined CRISPR/Cas9-based genomic-DNA-fragment editing with chromosome-conformation-capture experiments to show that the location and relative orientations of CBSs determine the specificity of long-range chromatin looping in mammalian genomes, using protocadherin (Pcdh) and β-globin as model genes. Inversion of CBS elements within the Pcdh enhancer reconfigures the topology of chromatin loops between the distal enhancer and target promoters and alters gene-expression patterns. Thus, although enhancers can function in an orientation-independent manner in reporter assays, in the native chromosome context, the orientation of at least some enhancers carrying CBSs can determine both the architecture of topological chromatin domains and enhancer/promoter specificity. These findings reveal how 3D chromosome architecture can be encoded by linear genome sequences.
***
2, [Jia, Z., Guo, Y., Tang, Y., Xu, Q., Li, B., & Wu, Q. (2014). Regulation of the Protocadherin Celsr3 Gene and Its Role in Globus Pallidus Development and Connectivity. Molecular and cellular biology, 34(20), 3895-3910.](http://mcb.asm.org/content/34/20/3895.short)

ABSTRACT

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160;The globus pallidus (GP) is a central component of basal ganglia whose malfunctions cause a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders as well as cognitive impairments in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease. Here we report that the protocadherin gene Celsr3 is regulated by the insulator CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) and the repressor neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF, also known as REST) and is required for the development and connectivity of GP. Specifically, CTCF/cohesin and NRSF inhibit the expression of Celsr3 through specific binding to its promoter. In addition, we found that the Celsr3 promoter interacts with CTCF/cohesin-occupied neighboring promoters. In Celsr3 knockout mice, we found that the ventral GP is occupied by aberrant calbindin-positive cholinergic neurons ectopic from the nucleus basalis of Meynert. Furthermore, the guidepost cells for thalamocortical axonal development are missing in the caudal GP. Finally, axonal connections of GP with striatum, subthalamic nucleus, substantia nigra, and raphe are compromised. These data reveal the essential role of Celsr3 in GP development in the basal forebrain and shed light on the mechanisms of the axonal defects caused by the Celsr3 deletion.
***
3, [Li, J., Shou, J., Guo, Y., Tang, Y., Wu, Y., Jia, Z., Zhai, Y., Cheng, Z., Xu, Q., & Wu, Q. (2015). Efficient inversions and duplications of mammalian regulatory DNA elements and gene clusters by CRISPR/Cas9. Journal of molecular cell biology, 2015 7: 284-298.](http://jmcb.oxfordjournals.org/content/7/4/284)

Abstract

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160;The human genome contains millions of DNA regulatory elements and a large number of gene clusters, most of which have not been tested experimentally. The clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated nuclease 9 (Cas9) programed with a synthetic single-guide RNA (sgRNA) emerges as a method for genome editing in virtually any organisms. Here we report that targeted DNA fragment inversions and duplications could easily be achieved in human and mouse genomes by CRISPR with two sgRNAs. Specifically, we found that, in cultured human cells and mice, efficient precise inversions of DNA fragments ranging in size from a few tens of bp to hundreds of kb could be generated. In addition, DNA fragment duplications and deletions could also be generated by CRISPR through trans-allelic recombination between the Cas9-induced double-strand breaks (DSBs) on two homologous chromosomes (chromatids). Moreover, junctions of combinatorial inversions and duplications of the protocadherin (Pcdh) gene clusters induced by Cas9 with four sgRNAs could be detected. In mice, we obtained founders with alleles of precise inversions, duplications, and deletions of DNA fragments of variable sizes by CRISPR. Interestingly, we found that very efficient inversions were mediated by microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ) through short inverted repeats. We showed for the first time that DNA fragment inversions could be transmitted through germlines in mice. Finally, we applied this CRISPR method to a regulatory element of the Pcdhα cluster and found a new role in the regulation of members of the Pcdhγ cluster. This simple and efficient method should be useful in manipulating mammalian genomes to study millions of regulatory DNA elements as well as vast numbers of gene clusters.



